This repository contains all the material necessary for replicating our results in the manuscript entitled:
# Practical Identifiability in the Frame of Nonlinear Mixed Effects Models: the Example of the in vitro Erythropoiesis

## General purpose

In the manuscript, we develop a multistart apprach to practical identifiability in Mixed Effect Models (MEM), using the example of our previously published model of *in vitro* erythropoiesis. Our model accounts for experimental heterogeneity as variations in the kinetic parameters of our previously published model. In a first step, we reduce the model in order to make it identifiable with the data at our disposal. In a second step, we test an alternative modeling approach considering experimental heterogeneity as a variation in the initial condition of the model. Please refer to the manuscript for more detail.

We estimated the parameters of every MEM defined in the manuscript using the Convergence Assessment tool in Monolix2018R1. The results of the estimations were then analyzed using python scripts which we developped.

The contents of this repository can be used in 2 ways:
1. Replicating the figures of the manuscript, using our estimated parameter values (which are provided in the repository).
2. Replicating the estimation procedure, using the provided Monolix model files

## Contents and folders

- The scripts folder contains two jupyter notebooks which were used to process the data generated by Monolix. 01_Model_Reduction.ipynb generates the figures related to our reduction approach for MEM. 02_Initial_Condition_Variability.ipynb generates the figures related to our alternative model based on the variability of the initial condition.

Each other folder contains two subfolders: one related to the Model Reduction Approach, and the other one related to the Initial Condition Variability modelling. Reduced models are referenced by which parameters was removed from them.

- The models folder contains the .mlxtran files describing every mixed effect model used in the manuscript. They are necessary to replicate the parameter estimations using Monolix.

- The data folder contains the raw cell counts data used for model calibration (ExperimentalData.csv), as well as all the data files generated by Monolix during the Convergence Assessment, and necessary to replicate the figures of the manuscript.

- The figure folder contains all the raw figures of the manuscript.

## Dependencies

- For replicating the figures without performing the estimation: numpy, scipy, matplotlib
- For replicating the estimations: Monolix

Developped and tested under Ubuntu (18.04). All pathnames in ipynb and mlxtran files are written in Unix format.
